---
title: Marina Hasenkamp
author: Shizuka
infobox: true
image: /img/pfp-marina.jpg
info:
  Species: "[Red fox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_fox)"
  Shifted: "3wks AF"
  Gender: Female
  Age: "late 20s"
  Colors:
    - Red-brown fur
    - White undercoat
    - Sandy blonde hair
    - Brown eyes
  Height: 5'11"
  Occupation: "Owner, [Hoptimism Inn and Tavern](/locations/furhaven-tavern)"
  Relationships:
    - "[Shizuka Valenheart](/characters/shizuka), girlfriend"
  Personality:
    - "Warm and friendly"
    - "Perfectionist"
    - "Privately guarded"
  Known for:
    - "Founding Furry"
    - "Foxfire Mead"
---

# Marina Hasenkamp

**Marina Hasenkamp** is a fox anthro living in [Furhaven
Valley](/locations/furhaven), and owns and tends bar at the [Hoptimism
Tavern](/locations/furhaven-tavern) with her bunny girlfriend, [Shizuka
Valenheart](/characters/shizuka).

<!--toc-->

## Biography

Marina is a red fox with brown eyes, sandy blonde hair, and a long red tail. She
is almost always wearing long, colorful dresses, tailored to accomodate her
tail. Her coat changes from red to a grayish brown in the summer. Marina
occasionally dyes her hair to compensate for this loss of fur coloring.

As the bartender at Hoptimism Tavern, Marina is generally warm and friendly,
easily making her patrons feel relaxed. She moves with grace, dancing behind the
bar while mixing, and when out of the tavern seems to flow as she walks. Marina
speaks in a velvety alto, and is often humming to herself as she works. In her
private life, Marina is more introspective, and often expresses difficulty
connecting with others as well as she's expected to.

Two weeks after the [Outbreak](/events/outbreak), Marina's ears started
stretching out, followed by the beginnings of a tail. She was able to hide the
effects for the first week, but soon after her face started to change and fur
sprouted all over her body. After three weeks, Marina had completed the
anthropic shift.

At this time, public backlash was mounting to the increasing number of confirmed
anthros shifting across the country, and Marina found herself out of work. She
moved into an obscure pub in Seattle, working behind the scenes in exchange for
safe shelter. In her spare time, she met with other recently-shifted anthros in
the city, and joined in planning a commune around a lodge one of their friends
owned east of the cities. About six months after the Outbreak, Marina and her
new friends moved to the lodge, founding the village of Furhaven.

With the first wave of the anti-anthro panic subsiding -- the public working out
that anthros were not, in fact, replacing humanity, nor were they radically
different people after the shift -- Marina would continue to work at the pub,
this time behind the counter. She also took day trips around the city, intending
to reinforce the normality of an anthro in public life, though there were still
previous few other anthros around.

On several such trips, she came across a short rabbit anthro named [Shizuka
Valenheart](/characters/shizuka), recently relocated to the Seattle area, and at
risk of homelessness herself. The two became fast friends, and before long
Marina asked the bunny to join her in Furhaven, to help make a safe place for
wayward anthros. It would take several months to raise the money to build their
dream, but a year after the Outbreak the pair opened the Hoptimism Inn and
Tavern in Furhaven Valley.

Marina and Shizuka live together with Shizuka's adopted daughter, Rachel, at the
[Great Lodge](/locations/furhaven-lodge).


## Foxfire Mead

Marina is best known for creating Foxfire Mead, a low-alcohol honeywine with
cinnamon and assorted fruits from Furhaven's agricultural district. Despite its
deceptively simple recipe, Foxfire became explosively popular with anthros in
the Seattle area, and was soon licensed to microbreweries around the state.
While the mead does well in markets across the country, it's well known in the
anthro community that the best can only be found at Hoptimism.
