---
permalink: "/anthropic-shift"
title: Anthropic Shift
author: Shizuka
infobox: true
subtitle: 'AKA: *confursion, furry plague, furry TF*'
image: /img/foxtf-by-roina.png
caption:
  A young woman undergoing the shift
  <br> Art by [Roina](https://www.pixiv.net/member_illust.php?mode=medium&illust_id=73111346)
info:
  Symptoms:
    - Fur growth
    - Tail and/or ear changes
    - Personality changes
  Onset: Unknown
  Duration: "~2-4 weeks, varies by form"
  Incidence: "~1% population"
---

## Anthropic Shift

The **anthropic shift**, commonly referred to as *"the confursion"*, *"furry
plague"*, or simply *"furry TF"*, is a term for the metamorphosis of humans into
anthropomorphic, humanoid animals, called *"anthros"*. Symptoms vary from
patient to patient, but typically begin with the growth of fur or scales,
followed by more advanced alterations to body features such as tails or ears.
The process typically takes between two to four weeks to complete. It is not
known what causes the shift to trigger, but it is speculated that all humans are
potentially vulnerable.


## History

In the mid-21st century, the Union Aerospace Corporation, through subsidiary
Xenomics Laboratories, began research into genetic alterations for their space
program. Specifically, an adaptation that would prevent muscle atrophy and bone
loss in astronauts in prolonged microgravity travel.

After several years of work, Xenomics produced a sequence of genetic alterations
that would improve resistance to these effects. However, the process of
introducing the alterations to grown astronauts proved prohibitively invasive,
and failed several early trials. Therefore, with nearly unlimited funding from
UAC's domination of the private space industry, Xenomics turned focus towards
developing a more efficient method of altering existing astronauts' bodies. The
result was a miracle procedure capable of propagating the desired effects --
resistance to bone loss and atrophy -- via an artificial viral strain that could
edit and express the new genes.

Union Aerospace's CEO [Maarten van Holstruk](/characters/patient-zero) was
eccentric at best, often trying to keep a finger on the pulse of social media by
jumping into internet trends. At one time, they participated in a joke thread
about having an anthro alter-ego, leading some to speculate Xenomics' research
wasn't exclusively for the benefit of spaceflight. After a number of months out
of the public eye, it was revealed that van Holstruk had become the first to
undergo the anthropic shift, transforming into a marten type anthro. This moment
became colloquially known as the "first infection", or the
[Outbreak](/events/outbreak). The fledgling anthro community would mark the date
as the dividing line for BF and AF -- Before and After Furries.

In reality, Xenomics had encountered test patients undergoing the anthropic
shift in the several weeks leading up to van Holstruk's announcement. Maarten
had indeed attempted to use Xenomics' gene therapy to gain cat-like traits. By
the bad luck of history, the alterations necessary to induce the development of
animal traits were sufficiently similar to the spaceflight traits that the gene
therapy's viral payload incorporated them both. Xenomics fell into a frenzy of
research, simultaneously attempting to remove the anthro changes from their
therapy, and studying the method by which the combined serum was causing trial
subjects to sprout fur, including the CEO. Through a series of unfortunate
circumstances, the gene therapy became contagious beyond their patients. Before
long, it had breached containment at Xenomics' research facility, and spread at
a terrifying pace. Internal studies showed the therapy strain, now known as the
anthropic plague, had managed to infect the entire city around the facility.
Union Aerospace recommended van Holstruk go public to get ahead of the news
cycle, and within a week the first reports of anthropic shift had arisen all
over the world.


## Transformation

Initial studies claimed that the plague had equally infected all populations,
suggesting the presence of a trigger mechanism to begin the shift. Later studies
indicated the plague may have spread more selectively by air and sea travel, and
so the time to onset could be a consistent time after infection. In either case,
there is no conclusive evidence as to what induces the transformation.

The shift itself also varies from patient to patient. Typically, the first
symptom is an itch related to fur (or scales or feathers) growing somewhere on
the body. This is generally followed by minor changes to body features destined
to become more animal in form -- a bump at the base of the tailbone, or ears
locating slightly upward. After one or two days from onset, whatever symptoms
have presented are noticeable enough that most patients seek medical diagnosis.

In most cases, where the anthro's final form is more notably humanoid rather
than animal, the anthropic shift increases the rate of physical and mental
changes over the first two weeks. During this time, tests are performed on skin
or fur samples to identify the anthro's eventual species. Often, this is roughly
correlated with traits of the anthro's physique and personality
pre-transformation -- males often become wolves or dogs, females cats or foxes,
nervous personalities become prey animals, etc. Where the species aligns with
these traits, they tend to become more pronounced during the shift.
[One anthro](/characters/shizuka) managing anxiety disorder who became a rabbit
reported heightened senses and adrenaline responses. For anthro cases, the shift
lasts between two and four weeks, and most anthros report a calming sensation
indicating that the process has finished.

In advanced cases, where the final form is significantly less humanoid, the
shift can last longer than four weeks. One early anthro was identified as
becoming an orca, and after being relocated to a coastal city completed the
shift over three months. Shifts of this duration are rare, with an estimated one
or two cases per year.

Anthros do not typically report pain associated with the anthropic shift, apart
from discomfort resulting from fur growth or skeletal realignments. Changes in
nervous systems, such as from increased hearing sensitivity or visual acuity,
more frequenly cause additional discomfort as the anthro acclimates.

On rare occasion, the hormonal changes associated with the anthropic shift
result in a change in gender. This is typically the case for anthros who
identified as transgender before the shift, or were on replacement therapies.
For anthros who did not previously identify as transgender, new feelings of
dysphoria are typical. Studies are inconclusive as to whether these feelings
subside over time.


## Prognosis

Although traditional medicinal and veterinarian treatments can improve symptoms
of discomfort arising during the anthropic shift, there is no known cure. The
shift is generally regarded as irreversible.

Lifestyle changes for anthros are commonly recommended, including changes in
diet or relocation to different climates. Herbivore anthros, for instance, can
be considered similar enough to vegetarians to seek similar advice. Carnivorous
anthros frequently opt for behavioral therapy to avoid the possibility of
attacking a fellow anthro. Outreach centers provide assistance in moving to
other cities in climates more suited to an anthro's form.

There have been no recorded cases of an anthro losing its sense of identity, nor
Due to the anthropic shift beginning from the everyday human body, vocal folds
are found in every anthro examined to date. This includes the advanced anthros
whose ultimate form resembles the animal far more than the human. Clarity of
speech varies by form, but in all known cases the anthro retains the ability to
communicate intelligently. Of all anthros surveyed upon completing the anthropic
shift, none indicated a desire to return to human forms.

Anthros often maintain their employment during and after the shift, with minor
accomodation needed in nearly all cases. For those whose form prevents them from
performing their work, employers have shown willingness to assist in finding
alternative positions rather than layoff the new anthro.

Overall, prognosis is very good for humans finding themselves turning furry.
Despite the challenges faced with new body features and hygienic needs, and the
expected cultural resistance to the anthro subculture, an anthro can find
themselves leading happier lives in their new body than ever before.
